docs: url parameter for workspace image (rhdevdocs-5255) (#2612)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/url-parameter-for-container-image.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: URL parameter for a container image
:keywords: parameter, URL, container, image
:navtitle: URL parameter for a container image
//:page-aliases:

[id="url-parameter-for-container-image"]
= URL parameter for a container image

You can use the `image` parameter to add a path to a container image in the following scenarios:

* The Git repository contains no devfile, and you want to start a new workspace with this container.

* The Git repository contains a devfile, and you want this container image to run instead of the first `container` `image` listed in the `components` section of the devfile.

The URL parameter for the path to a container image is `image=`:

> [subs="+quotes"]
> ----
> https://<che_fqdn>#<git_repository_url>?image=<container_image_url>
> ----

Reviewer: We have an attribute for that. You can just reuse bits from other pages. I've just had a look at another similar page:
https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/blob/main/modules/end-user-guide/pages/url-parameter-for-the-ide.adoc?plain=1#L22
But I highly recommend double-checking the preview in such cases:
```suggestion
[source,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_url>__?image=__<container_image_url>__
----
```

> pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_url>__?image=__<container_image_url>__

Reviewer 2: I do not think it is URL actually, but rather image reference e.g. docker.io/repo/test-image:tag

Reviewer 2: would be great to have an example as part of the section

Reviewer 3: @ibuziuk I did this ficha.
Issue: https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/21990
PR: https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-dashboard/pull/761
It is an image reference e.g. docker.io/repo/test-image:tag.

```
https://che-dogfooding.apps.che-dev.x6e0.p1.openshiftapps.com#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-dashboard.git?image=quay.io/eclipse/che-plugin-registry:next

```

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: URL parameter for a container image
:keywords: parameter, URL, container, image
:navtitle: URL parameter for a container image
//:page-aliases:

[id="url-parameter-for-container-image"]
= URL parameter for a container image

> You can use the `image` parameter to add a path to a container image in the following scenarios:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the `image` parameter to use the custom reference to a container image in the following scenarios:
```

> * The Git repository contains no devfile, and you want to start a new workspace with this container.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Git repository contains no devfile, and you want to start a new workspace with the custom image.
```

> * The Git repository contains a devfile, and you want this container image to run instead of the first `container` `image` listed in the `components` section of the devfile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Git repository contains a devfile, and you want to override the first container image listed in the `components` section of the devfile.
```

> The URL parameter for the path to a container image is `image=`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The URL parameter for the first container image reference is `image=`:
```

[source,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----

> pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_url>__?image=__<container_image_url>__

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository>__?image=__<container_image>__
```

Author: I checked other pages and we keep the `url` in there for clarity: https://648d7564033576674368d475--eclipse-che-docs-pr.netlify.app/docs/next/end-user-guide/url-parameter-for-starting-duplicate-workspaces/

I'll keep the original formatting if that's ok with you.

Reviewer 3: I just wanted to tell you that after resolving https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/22025
we have the ability to start a workspace from a git repository using the GIT+SSH protocol: ```git@github.com:eclipse/che.git```.  In this case ```git_repository``` sounds better.

Up to you. You can live it as is.

Reviewer 4: @olexii4 cheers for the heads up.

I am okay with changing `container_image_url` => `container_image`. Given we can use either HTTPS or SSH when starting a workspace in this way, I'd recommend swapping "url" with "uri" to keep the explicitness, but make the docs protocol agnostic.

```suggestion
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#__<git_repository_uri>__?image=__<container_image>__
```

Reviewer: If you decide to change the `__<git_repository_url>__` value, then please:
A. Update it to the new value throughout the docs as it appears in other pages too.
B. Or, if you wish, replace it with an attribute throughout the docs.

Reviewer: @olexii4, thank you for bringing this to our attention.

----

.Example

> pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?image=quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest

Reviewer: @deerskindoll , try this:
```suggestion
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?image=quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
----
```

Reviewer: Or:
```suggestion
`pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?image=quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest`
```

> link:https://che-dogfooding.apps.che-dev.x6e0.p1.openshiftapps.com/#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?i[…]ile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest[https://che-dogfooding.apps.che-dev.x6e0.p1.openshiftapps.com/#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?i[…]ile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest]

Reviewer 2: @deerskindoll I do not think we should put a dogfooding instance in the sample
```suggestion
pass:c,a,q[{prod-url}]#https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs?image=quay.io/devfile/universal-developer-image:ubi8-latest
```
